{
	//Andy-Brainstorm (round 2) - 6/14/12
	So i think I'm moving towards lwjgl folder, we have agreed to start much smaller than initially this was going, we should DEFINITELY still discuss plans for setting and the future of this project.


}
{
	//Andy- Brainstorm (round 1(or 3?)) - 6/13/12


INITIAL THOUGHTS: holy crap tetris -> rpg how did this progression happen… loving it though. This will be difficult and considering we are both noobs with graphics animations c++ opengl pixen and everything else involved we should not, as discussed before, have a global timeline for fear of becoming discouraged, if done right this should not be completed for a long time, but I am so pumped up to get started and see where the road takes us, one thing is for sure, it will not make us worse programmers so I'm definitely in.

Also, I think this brainstorming process is currently a hurricane. as in woah we have stats and worlds and dying characteristics and everything moshed together which is great to start off but with some working together and collaborating on this i think it would be really great to get some core features down, some absolutely fundamental properties done first. My list for this is:

FUNDAMENTALS:

1.) Setting: where are we? i feel like setting adds so much to games, i.e Bastion/ Limbo, setting is nearly everything. This will probably help us out with character design like "would a dragon live here?" " would a wizard live here?" " would a 3 headed fire breathing giant snake live here?" 

2.) Leveling: RPG to me is where are you and how are you making your character awesome, we've covered where, now how to progress. The pooling idea is cool, it made me think of fable 2 with the colored orbs of skill and such. which i think is a really cool idea. I also immediately love the idea of greedy and altruistic characters. but ill get to that.
So initially we fight a battle (turn based or action, doesn't matter) and afterwards we get rewarded with XP or something with a cooler name, could be based off of the setting (i.e. souls). My initial vote is for you NOT to take other characters armor when they die. I think stores are a really sweet thing. I know when i game i see a store and i immediately want the coolest thing in the store, so i will save for it. This is in leveling because I'm not sure yet if the XP should also be the currency, it would be a weird tie in like would you like to make your character better OR get really sweet weapons. 

3.) Hero/Villian..Character: Who am I?, honestly i don't think this is as important as the setting or leveling because in fallout or skyrim yes its cool to initially make a character but I've forgotten that I've put a ridiculous mustache on my fallout guy until now, it doesn't effect the game a whole lot. It seems like we are in some sort of agreement that we have a master ( main character) with some slaves ( monsters that were obtained in some way) so are we a character whom you can customize(fable, fallout) or just "the main character" (pokemon). I think is somewhat customizable for you now with all the different character descriptions (monk, thief, etc) but again is this a general thief , or me as a thief. I don't see how the character really matters if they don't fight, so Im going to assume they fight in some way, or do they pass their skills or abilities to their monsters? A lot to go over here. 
		Basic Questions:
			1.) custom or general character?(my vote general, i don't need red hair and purple shoes to feel cool, give me a thief or a mage and let me start playing)
			2.) Do they fight? no opinion right now
			3.) Can they die? I'm going to initially say no, because thats game over, right? is that good?

4.) Monsters: i don't think specific monsters are too important, especially right now. They'll come as we go and think of cool abilities. We do need to know.. how many monsters can i have? infinite? 1? 2? 6? if many we need a way of containing or holding them. if a few we can have them follow. I think monsters should level fairly fast, if you want of course, i think the pooling idea is great, monster A wins a fight, give it all to monster B if you want to make him better. This is where greedy would come in, say monster A is greedy, either he cannot give to and altruistic character or he can't give at all, i say not at all but that might have issues. Altruistic characters can't keep X% of winnings (50%, 100%, 0%?!) probably 50 but again detail that is not yet important. 

So we have a setting, we have a leveling system, we have a main character, and we have monsters. the main character goes throughout the setting, leveling up the monsters in the specific way. we have an rpg? eh kind of i mean obviously we need tasks and enemies yet, but that, in my opinion is under the leveling category. gear is under the monsters, or main character? not sure about that yet either. and currency potentially IS leveling juice or material, whatever it may be. that also probably has drawbacks, but would be a neat thing to experiment with.


Thats my thoughts right away for HOW to start programming an rpg, if we can both get a solid mindset of how those 4 things work with each other we can really get off to a nice start. Im just kind of spitting anything that comes to mind and I'm sure i missed something fundamental, so let me know and we can add it or subtract something you don't deem fundamental that i have included.


As for what you currently have:

STATS:
	Health points are a must, easy way to program life and easy to tell how in danger of dying you are.
	Magic points, eh I'm kind of in your school of thought here, maybe each character has 5 skill points and can use them. so a mage will shoot a fire ball and a lightning bolt, while a thief will attack twice in a row because of speed, and each of these events uses a skill point so its all kind of in one, and changes depending on what character you have, this way ..like in skyrim, if your a big brute then magic isn't very important.

	Abilities in general- monsters level quickly, main character slowly, don't need to have the same stats, the core abilities you have a good for now, as far as speed though i think that should be monster dependent and weapon ability again is that a weapon your character uses or monster uses, if monster than thats his ability in attack or whatever, if main then its a combo of strength and dexterity. WE NEED TO KNOW IF CHARACTERS ATTACK.

PERKS: 
	To me this is pretty simple. I mean we could reprogram skyrim and get all complex but i don't see the need, put the perks in weapons, and we are done, we have gear that has its own special features that helps the monsters, that way when gear is lost(with a dead character) more sadness and despair mwahahahaha.

I think i covered my progression in leveling up top. as of now just a general pool of points gained from winning battles, used for buying and leveling, its so valuable like adam in bioshock. not the use of it but how it is wanted and coveted in the world.

Slave people adds a very complex part to the game, and maybe all monsters are people ???? like a global fight club haha. definitely something to discuss. like you have a clan and you pick the commander( he gets extra skill points) and we can go on and on…. this is something to discuss i like it right now.

INSPIRATION:
	bioshock
	fallout
	bastion
	skyrim
	mario
	pokemon

	bioshock- story is so cool and so wow
	fallout - what would you do in that world/setting
	bastion - immediately fun and intriguing environment, very original
	skyrim - mega world, mega items, just so much going on, hard not to be impressed
	mario - fun,rewarding and addicting, simplicity, definitely something we will have to focus on
	pokemon- seems to be the main driver of this game right now.

COMBAT:
	does main character fight? in clan of people idea YES. in pokemon idea probably not.

DEATH:
	I think you got my idea of this in the Skype chat. basically save monsters/people separately and save before player knows they died.

CHARACTER CLASSES:
	Not terribly concerned with this yet, what you have is great for now
COMBAT SYSTEM:
	turn based: easy to code
		    not as crazy fun? maybe
		    obvious how to do monsters people, pokemon
	action:	animations and more code
		cooler appeal, might be more fun
		harder to do the death save
		how do we have a clan here? or other monsters?
GOOD EVIL:
	its probably a good idea to have morality be a part of the game, but again not immediately important to me this moment.

pushing this now so we can talk about it. this is gigantic. FUNDAMENTALS, we will go crazy over details, we must start a foundation first.



	

{
	// Zach - Initial Brainstorm (round 2) - 6/13/12

STATS:
	
	Do monsters and people have seperate stats? The same? How do you compare a man to a dragon?

	I love the stats in Dark Souls, and also D&D, the original RPG.

	HP -			Health. At <= 10% you're bloodied, at 0% you're dead.
	MP - 			I actually don't want an MP system at all. I love 
					playing as spellcasters in games but I hate that you have to lug around dozens of potions or just be limited. I think we can balance it so it's not necessary to have MP, especially with only one or two magic classes.


	Core ability scores: These don't go up when you level up (except very infrequently). They're pretty much locked in when you roll your character

	Strength -		Physical attacks, ability to lift certain weapons.
					This is your typical fighter's best stat.
	Dexterity -		Allows you to use skill-based weapons, critical hit dmg.
					Theif's best stat.
	Charisma -		Recruiting people, bartering, talking your way out of
					fights. Diplomat's best stat.
	Intelligence -	Magic damage and defense, potentially learning languages.
					The wizard's best stat.
	Wisdom - 		Allows a greater range of spells you can cast. 
					The sorcerer's best stat.
	Constitution - 	Defense, hit points, resistance to diseases.
	Luck - 			Better drop rates, better critical hit chance.



	Stats: More traditional stats that go up when you level up.

	Speed - 		Determines when/how often you attack.
	Weapon skills - Maybe you can gain proficiencies with certain types of 
					weapons to get perks when you use them?

	Not really thinking of a lot of stats. Maybe you gain +1 Ability score every three levels, and otherwise just gain more health, better loot, and the like?

	Hmm...


PERKS:

	A la Skyrim.

	We could do something akin to this for leveling up. You gain X perk points to put into various trees and unlock new abilities/proficiencies/etc.

	We could also do something closer to WoW/Diablo/Torchlight/MMO type games where it's fewer strict tech trees (specific to character types) and you choose among those. I actually think this is more appropriate if we choose to do specialized classes, but if we have a build-your-own-class type thing then the Skyrim perks sound better.



Lets talk character progression.

I really love the Dark Souls style of levelling up. I know it's very atypical for an RPG, but it could work out really well actually. Here's the idea: you kill enemies and take their souls (or whatever other currency we want- even XP). Then at designated points (bonfires/save points) you can choose to spend those points to upgrade your stats. In Dark Souls when you die all of the souls you have on you (that you haven't spent) are dropped in a puddle where you died, and you have to go back and touch them before dying again or they're gone forever.

I'm not sure if I want the sort of punishing difficulty level of Dark Souls, so I don't know if I like the idea of having to race back to get your souls (and I'm still not sure if you'll still be alive (the whole death thing)). I think what we can take from Dark Souls is the idea of just getting a big pool of experience and then divvying it out how you choose. 
	- If you want to put 50,000 experience into your commander and never buff up anyone else then go for it. Just hope he doesn't die, or you're a chump again.
	- This can also let you kinda choose your style. You can try to solo the game with just a single character or have a full team of mid-range guys.
	- Maybe there's some way to recover all or a portion of your character's xp when he dies? So that you don't feel horrible about sinking a ton of time into a guy and then wasting it all.
	- In Dark Souls the idea is that you can only lose the souls you haven't spent. Once you upgrade your chracater those changes are saved and your safe. You only feel danger when you are carrying a lot on you - not in every single battle.

Hmm...

In Pokemon/RPGs the characters you use in battle succesfully gain experience from it. This makes levelling up a Magikarp really annoying and you have to do the 'show your face then get switched out for an actual fighter' technique. I also did that but I just didn't enjoy it. It's tedious and not fun. I think that if we're doing a commander + allies style fight then there should definitely be a pool of exp/whatever that gets divided up amongst the people as you see fit. Maybe there are some abilities/statuses like 'greedy' and 'altruistic' that determine if certain characters get more/less of the xp.


CHARACTER CLASSES:
	
	Monk: 	Must be good.
			A spiritual warrior that fights with his fists.
			Mix of the Monk in Diablo and a Paladin. Resistant to most diseases, high defense and health stats. A physical fighter who can't equip weapons (or at least a very limited selection) and only very light armor. Instead of just throwing on sick gear to make him powerful, you need to level him up. His perk tree is better than the other character classes because as he gains experience his inner powers grow. Primary stat: constitution.


I'm still not completely sure if we want to be able to gain people almost like we do pokemon, or if it'll just be your main character that is the commander. But if we can gain people then maybe you have to talk them into joining you. Either intimidate them and keep them with you via fear, or persuade them/charm them to follow you because they love you. 

I'm trying to figure out what kind of world this is, if it's true that you'll be able to get people to fight for you (sometimes against their will).
Hmm..

Lots and lots of thinking to do. On theme, setting, story, mechanics. Hmm..

}

{
// Zach - Initial Brainstorm - 6/13/12
// Formatted to be read with 78 line word wrap.

INSPIRATION:
	
	Games I've played:
		Super Mario RPG
		Chrono Trigger
		Final Fantasy 4/6
		Pokemon Red/Blue
		Dragon Warrior Monsters
		Superbrothers: Swords & Sworcery EP
		DARK SOULS

	Games I want to play:
		On the Rainslick Precipice of Darkness 3
		Superbrothers: Swords & Sworcery EP (haven't beaten it)
		Earthbound
		Newer RPGs

	Dungeons and Dragons



COMBAT:
	
	Commander (probably human, although I guess it could be a monster)
	Is your main character the commander?
	One main guy that is more powerful than the rest- although not necessarily stats.
		- He can attack more often/use more abilities/something of the sort.
		- Instead of just having higher base stats, doing it this way allows you to have *anyone* as the commander and activate their own special commander skills instead of only wanting your best character as the big guy.
	If we do your main character is the commander, can he die? This could be like a hardcore version of the game where if your main dies, game over.
	Is game over necessarily the end? In Final Fantasy games when your party wipes you just re-load from the last save. In Pokemon you respawn at the last pokemon center.


QUESTIONS:

	How do you make death meaningful in the game? 
		- Can only the commander die permanently?
			- If this is the case then you'll benefit from putting your best guy at commander and it'll also matter more if he dies. So you can balance it out by putting like a mid-range guy there but then you're getting like the middle of the road benefit and potential loss. I like this.

	Hard saves (Final Fantasy style) or Checkpoints (pokemon center style) or both?
		- Definitely need hard saves. So I guess it's just really whether or not we want to include checkpoints. If we have checkpoints then it kinda defeats the death penalty for your main character. You'll just re-load and switch him out or avoid that path or whatever.



	I guess the question I keep asking is how do you make death matter enough that you grieve the loss of your character and strive to keep him alive, yet simultaneously not important enough that you restart from a much earlier save in order to get him back?
		- The game won't be fun if you have to repeat a long section of what you just did  only to avoid the death of your party member, but it won't be interesting if death is trivial/a minor setback.

	In Final Fantasy games you can grind for a long time and then just go out and kick ass for 10 hours without ever dying.
	In Pokemon games you can wipe every thirty minutes and just pick yourself up, lose some cash, and keep going.
	In Diablo/WoW (the kings of addiction), you take a slight durability hit and then keep going.


HOLY SHIT!

	LOOT!

	Torchlight/Diablo/WoW/MMO style dungeon crawlers are so much fun because you keep grinding away and delving through floors of enemies for the hope of some sweet gear that'll pump up your character. 
	Pokemon had no loot. No gear. Items were kinda cheap (Max Revive/Full Heal cost too little to really matter).

	We need loot. Lots of it. Head, torso, shoulders, arms, rings, necklace/trinket, legs, feet.

	You put it on your main/commander. He dies, your loot is gone. Or maybe not. Maybe it stays where it is and you have to go back to get it, but it turns into enemies that you have to defeat to get it back. Like your overpowered Sword of Inifinite destruction comes back to bite you in the ass if you want to get it back.


ALIGNMENTS:
	
	D&D Style alignment table:
		
		Lawful Good			Lawful Neutral		Lawful Evil
		
		Neutral Good		True Neutral		Neutral Evil
		
		Chaotic Good		Chaotic Neutral		Chaotic Evil


	Monsters and characters all have these alignments. Good can't party with Evil. Lawful and Chaotic don't get along.


CHARACTER CLASSES:

	Diplomat/Charmer: Chaotic Good/Neutral Good.
	Easier time recruiting people to fight for him. Completely useless in combat. Great at trading. Better at trying to talk his way out of combat.

	Thief/Rogue: Chaotic Good or Chaotic Evil.
	Backstabbing, theiving. Can kill enemy trainers without even initiating a battle, or at least poision/weaken them. Can't recruit other people.

	Beast Master/Trainer: Must be Lawful.
	Amazing at capturing and training monsters. Boosts their stats/able to heal them. Can attempt to save them from dying.

	Wizard/Mage: Must be Chaotic.
	The only class that can use magic, other than the monsters (?). Or maybe he's more of a blue mage and can use any spell that he's been hit with by a monster? Not sure how much/if I want true magic in the game world.


COMBAT SYSTEM:
	
	Turn based team v team?
	Action RPG?
	Mix it up? Sometimes you duel just person v person, other times just monsters v monsters, other times monsters and people?
	Turn based for your monsters but action for your main?


Maybe you can actually grind up your team/main by going to a gym and just button mashing/playing mini-games. Definitely not as effective as combat but perfectly safe.


GOOD V EVIL:

	If you kill people, what happens? The Skyrim/Fable style of guards coming after you is just stupid and fucking annoying. Especially because it can be so glitchy and dumb if you just crouch behind a little barrel and then steal all the shit you want/kill whoever.

	There needs to be consequences for your actions. Or maybe not? I guess the question is, "Why not just be evil and kill (permanently) everything you can?"

	Maybe you can recruit opponents onto your team after fighting them. You gain their respect through the battle and rather than murder them you can have them join you.
		- If we did this then wouldn't you just have a huge surplus of people by the end? Like a veritable army and then no consequences, just throwing them out to be slaughtered one by one?

	I guess the alignment system kinda helps with this because you can't just murder people if you are/want to party with people that are Good. 


RANDOM BATTLES OR VISIBLE OPPONENTS?:

	In Pokemon the trainers are visible and the pokemon invisible. Obviously the people need to be visible. Do we have random monster encounters or can you see them? What about screen-filling v miniscule monsters. How could you see an ant monster, or get around a dragon?

	I guess this also goes back to the Action RPG v Turn based question because an Action RPG requires visible opponents (unless you are like 'teleported' to a battle arena where you move around).

	How common are battles? If you're going for loot, they need to be very common.


POKEMON CENTERS SHOULD BE TAVERNS/BARS:
	
	That's that. I think a bar is the perfect setting for a resting area/recovery place/quest board. 


ROCK PAPER SCISSORS:
	
	Elemental attacks? Swords poke through soft flesh but suck against scales?





I want this game to have feeling. I don't want you to run through a building and slaughter every last person, stripping them of their armor and killing their monsters, and reach the top with a feeling of pure happiness. You've got to really have motivation for killing them. Or be a Evil character who just wants to destroy.

I want you to roleplay and care deeply about your character and your companions and the impact you're having on the world.

I think the biggest thing I want for ths game is to give the player the ability to kill and die. I want death to be permanent, no respawn timer.

Maybe not everything dies. But when something does, it matters.

}